Hello community. So great that you are back. Yes, I know. Let's talk about quantum knowledge graphs, now. Come on, that's fun. So, what we have, we have a lot of possible drugs, and we have here a medical condition, and now we want to apply here a quantum knowledge graph. Now, you might think that's easy, but it's not that simple, because if we have here in medicine, for example, some specific patient context information, we want that the wave function collapses the very moment we put this specific individual here in our knowledge graph. Because now we want to see here how is here for this single person here the drug and the medical condition altered. So, let's have a start. You remember in my last video we talked about a quantum kernel advantage in quantum AI, and let's continue, and here we have a study of today, April 28, 2026, and this is from University of Hong Kong, from Tsinghua University in China, and from Duke University in the UK. So, here we go. Title is quantum knowledge graph. Modeling context-dependent triplet validity. So, okay, yeah, of course I already asked, "Hey, does the GitHub bricks exist?" Yes, this is your GitHub. Here you have everything beautiful. What is the main idea? The authors call this a quantum knowledge graph, and the idea is, well, an edge may appear both valid and invalid until evaluated under a very specific context. So, we have like a quantum mechanics here, uh if you want, the wave function collapses here into an eigenstate after operator, and they want to achieve this here also in this particular particular issue. But, in a classical knowledge graph, you know, in the classical AI, it operates here on some identical rigid assumptions. So, they represent the universe of facts as deterministic, a binary triplet. Now, we have the head, the relation, and the tail here in our triplet here of our knowledge graph, like drug A treats the disease B, or symptom X indicates the condition Y. Now, you know that in reality, and especially in medicine, if you do if we do not have a general patient, but we have a a real human being at a particular age, a particular sex here, in a particular medical condition, the truth here is, of course, what the authors argue a superposition. So, the triplet like ibuprofen treats fever is, you think, universally true, now, until the observer introduces now the context of a very specific patient, and now it turns out this single patient has some severe liver failure. Now, under the specific measurement condition that we have coming in from the environment, the validity of the triplet here, ibuprofen treats fever, goes from a value of beautiful one to a deadly zero. So, you have to be aware of the environment condition. This means to what human you apply this knowledge. And AI model confidentially hallucinates everything, because it applies here in general a general true fact to a specific invalid context. And this is the source of validation that we see in medical AI system. Now, I want to be a little bit tough here, because as a theoretical physicist, I would argue that this quantum knowledge graph, in my definition, is just a very tiny amount of quantum and a very a lot of amount of knowledge graph in the classical sense with a multi-agent implementation. So, let's go with the authors. The authors call it a quantum knowledge graph. Why? Instead of treating an edge in a knowledge graph as a statistical Boolean parameter, the authors of the quantum knowledge graph treat it as a probability wave function that only collapses into a true-false state when evaluated against an observation context. So, this means a very specific patient's medical history of patient number 123. Now, the quantum knowledge graph, they argue that it fundamentally reframes the factual validity not as an inherent property of the triplet itself, but as a function of the environment in which this is now measured. And you know, in quantum mechanics, if we have a measurement, we have a collapse here of the wave function. So, I would now argue maybe against the authors of the study, that yes, the idea of a quantum knowledge graph is from quantum mechanics, absolutely, but you know, I think that the real implementation that the authors chosen is not in a Hilbert space with unitary operators where we really do quantum calculation and quantum mechanics here and quantum computing, but a little bit sad, the authors show us here in their publication, they only take the idea, but they implement it here in a classical AI fashion with a multi-agent system. So, okay. I don't want to be sad here in any way. The idea comes from quantum mechanics, but just that you be advised, if you hope here that we have here a KissKit implementation here with a real quantum machine, unfortunately, no. We go with a multi-agent system, but it has some inherent cleverness. So, now you know, in general, right here, industry is obsessed with hooking up LLMs to external memory, vector databases, or graph databases here, officially to solve and reduce the hallucination. However, it is not that the retrieval is now the problem. It is the real applicability to some very specific use cases, to your finances, to your medical state, to your environment, that is now the bottleneck to have here prediction maybe about the future or given here the future conditions. So, you can argue that it is quantum knowledge graph offers here kind of a blueprint from shifting here the knowledge graph from a static data storage here in the graph structure itself to some dynamic inspectable logical gates, not yet quantum gates, evaluated in real time by, yes, so sad, classical agentic system. Now, you know, a standard knowledge graph characterizes the validity of a triplet here, let's call it tau here, by either a binary value, zero or one. If you go with probabilistic knowledge graph in encode your population level prior here between or within the interval from zero to one, and we are going to do now a quantum knowledge graph that parameterizes the validity as a context-dependent function, and this is the our context-dependent function, now. So, okay. Let's do this. Now, the authors here go with another simplification. They use here a natural language English validity conditions. So, they took here more than 68,000 triplets from a diabetes-centric subgraph here. We have those data like prime knowledge graph here for medical emergencies, and using LLM to generate here, let's call it the constraint items that are essentially attaching here boundary conditions here to every single edge, now. They say, "Careful, if this parameter is greater than this, or careful, this patient has no allergy to this particular item A." So, they put a lot of additional information here, and of course they use here an LLM to generate these data sets. So, what is the main idea? The main idea is multi-agent, now. You have a reasoner, then you do have a context extraction here of the patient context vector, and then we have a validate. And the validator is exactly what we're looking for, our quantum knowledge graph grounded LLM. Okay, let's have a look. The first LLM here is the reasoner. So, the reasoner looks at this and proposes an initial answer to a medical question and emits some structured claims. The context extractor is bringing in here the external environment, if you want, creates a structured patient context vector P. All the information about the patient is now included here, age, sex, lab values, whatever data we have, medical data we have. And then we have the validator here. This is where, if you want, the magic happens. Unfortunately, the classical AI magic happens. The validator retrieves here the graph edges here that are relevant to the reasoner claims. But before using them, it evaluates now our function F given here our triplet tau, and it checks here the retrieved constraint items record against P. So, one might say, "This is a classical multi-agent interaction." Yes, absolutely. So, therefore, if the patient now violates the constraint, let's say a particular blood count is too low for a particular drug application, now, the edge is now assigned contradicted and actively weaponized against the reasoner. Or if everything fits and all the medical conditions are in harmony, it returns for this particular edge, "Hey, this is supported." And then, the reasoner takes now the validator's report and updates its own answer, and you see we are here in a loop structure of a multi-agent system. Beautiful. Now, I'm a little bit disappointed, because I was expecting here a little bit more of a quantum mechanical implementation, but okay. Here we have it now, the screenshot by the authors. So, you have a context-insensitive knowledge graph. This is what they argue normally we have unable to model the context-dependent validity for a particular patient. They go now with the quant what they call a quantum knowledge graph that model has a context-dependent with the LLMs here. We have here all the parameter and the data here from the patient here. And then, as I told you, a simpler multi-system multi-agent system reasoner validator. So, we do have a medical question. We have all the context here given the patient here. We have a first the LLM only at this is doing the reasoner. But also a validator and then in the loop between reasoner and validator, where the validator has access to a quantum knowledge graph. The final answer is generated. And what we are hoping for is the accuracy, the medical precision here and the answer is for an LLM only low. For an LLM with a knowledge graph classic is a little bit better. But of course, we expect that now the LLM with a quantum knowledge graph to have a superior performance. Now, think about it. I really love the idea that you say, "Okay, we have here a particular drug that we know in general work, but now we have to bring here our patient data into this what they call a quantum knowledge graph. We want that the wave function collapses here into here our probability structure. And then for the very specific human condition, let's say here heart, you get a will this uh drug work or will not work or whatever. What are the conditions? What are here the environmental constraints? Okay, let's have a look at this. The results. They started here with an anthropic haiku. Who are not so powerful AI model here as a validator. And here you have the results. So, here we have no validator for the final accuracy of all the tasks here to detect for. And they had an accuracy of 77.5%. Then they went with a classical knowledge graph without this particular context on quantum. And they had a jump here to 78.1%. But with the quantum knowledge graph and everything we just talked about, we jumped from 78.1 to 78.9% accuracy. Okay. And then they were interested here, "Hey, wait a minute. We have here the number of answers that are revised now by the validator, by the validation. We can have this in both ways, no? We can have it into wrong to the correct, this is an improvement. And then we have correct to wrong, and this is a kind of a regression. So, the number of answers revised now, let's have a look what is happening here if we go with a classical knowledge graph or with a quantum knowledge graph. And you see this behavior here. Now, interestingly, this behavior changed significantly when they exchanged the haiku validator with a much more powerful Qwen 3.5 max model as a validator. You see, suddenly we have a jump here from 78.1 to 83.3 percentage point here with the knowledge graph without context. And for our methodology, well, the jump is here from 83.3 to 83.5 with the quantum knowledge graph. So, something is strange, you know? And if you look here at the if you want improvement from here, in green you have from wrong to correct, no? You see, "Wow, there's a lot of correction going on into the correct field, into the correct manifold here." And with a quantum knowledge graph here, yeah, also significant. But look here here the regressed one. So, something was interestingly a little bit strange. As it turned out, in a configuration, if you pair a weak reasoner AI with a strong validator AI model, which is here the settings in which the validator supplied prior knowledge is most likely to contaminate here your multi-agent communication. This means the measured validation gain. So, if you want in other words, the strong validator AI model was effectively cheating. Because instead of relying purely on this interaction between our knowledge graph elements of multi-agent to contradict here the reasoner in its reasoning trace, the validator was simply bypassing here the complete graph argumentation, you know? It was simply here as a strong model as a Qwen 3.6 with a lot of parametric knowledge. It was querying its own massive parametric memory and saying, "Yeah, why should I care about this graph structure here and the knowledge graph? I know it better. Because my own parametric memory tells me something else, and therefore I correct it." And they said, "Uh-oh, this this is not interesting that if a validator AI is cheating here, this is not providing here this next rack system, if you want retrieval augmented generation." So, they had a look in detail here, and yeah. If you want to have this here in a flowchart, this is it for you. So, compositional risk amplifier case where the validator combines multiple patient-specific factors to identify some medical conditions here and select correct medical treatment. Now, the authors said, "Okay, we understand what is going on. So, let's do a correction." Now, maybe this is not so interesting here from a theoretical point of view, but the authors engineered here a solution. And the solution was rather simple, no? You have an exact match regex or an LLM classifier to audit here the validator's reasoning traces. As you say, "Hey, those are the reasoning traces and have to stick to those traces, no?" And they surgically purged all experimental runs where the validator mhm, quotation mark, "hallucinated" correct parametric knowledge, I mean, relied on its own pre-trained correct parametric knowledge. They deleted this, they purged this, and said, "Hey, you have just to reflect here on the validator's reasoning traces here and on the yeah, all the other constraints. You cannot have your own knowledge to improve here the result." And then the sentence here, "And even after the strict new modification and penalization here of this hallucinated correct parametric knowledge here, um the quantum knowledge graph context matching, the authors tell us held a significant statistical edge over the static graph. So, okay. System is mhm, somehow working and a little bit better, no? And you understand from my wording what I think about this methodology. But beautiful study, have a look at it. They immediately identified that there is some leaking going on here from the strong validator AI. And it tells us it it is kind of a reminder, no? We have to be so careful if we build up something in a multi-agent reasoning complexity. If you have a real strong AI model, no? It is just over-swaying every other conversation, every other argumentation. And the AI model just tells you all the other AI models, "Hey, listen, I know it better. I have my parametric knowledge. I ignore the rest and I do what I want to do, and this is it, and ciao." So, be careful that you do not enter here this particular scenario. Now, how to further improve it? And of course, we have ideas how to really build some quantum knowledge graph, no? But not in this video. In this video, we just say, "Okay, what can we improve given here the constraint, uh the boundary condition by the authors. You could go if you really want to have here um a little bit more coherent structure, maybe an end-to-end differentiable quantum knowledge graph structure, no? Because currently here our function is evaluated via discrete prompt-based LLM and agent loop. Maybe this is not so great. Maybe if we have a continuous embedding space here, we can have here a complete differentiable structure. Remember Colbert here or a multi-vehicular attention mechanism, where we can train then the validator and the reasoner AI model jointly via reinforcement learning. Maybe I DPO or whatever you prefer. You have the data set for, no? So, this would be the outlook here if we continue here in this reasoning path, in this simplified with discrete prompt-based LLM in a natural language agentic loop. And you see, I don't feel happy that this is called a quantum knowledge graph. But the idea was there. I like that they have here a clear orientation here of implementing a knowledge graph with the specific patient human data, how they integrate this. But it is more or less here a class a classical agentic loop. So, therefore, not really something groundbreaking. But yeah, quantum AI is coming. So, therefore, we better prepare. I hope you had some insight. You see that whenever some authors, some scientific publication label this as a quantum something, sometimes it is only the idea that is coming from quantum mechanics, and the implementation is still a classical AI multi-agent system implementation. I hope you had a little bit of fun. Maybe you learned something new. Maybe you enjoyed it. It would be great to see you in my next video.
